Every Java Developer should know the following core java concepts -

OOPs Concepts
Abstract Classes and Interfaces
Constructors
File IO and Serialization
Collections - List , Map , Set
Access Specifiers
Exceptions - Checked , Unchecked
Generics
Java Keywords - Static , Final , volatile, synchronized , transient, this super etc.
JVM and Memory Management
Multithreading and Synchronization
Design Pattern



10 Skills that will make you a better Java Developer:

1. At least one MVC Framework like JSF, Playframework, Struts, or Spring MVC
2. Hibernate or JPA for databases
3. Dependency Injection (@Resource)
4. SOAP based Web Services (JAX-WS)
5. Some build tool (Ant, Maven, etc.)
6. JUnit (or other Unit Testing framework)
7. Version Control mostly Git
8. JSTL
9. Application server/container configuration management and application deployment (whether it is WebSphere, Tomcat, JBoss, etc. you need to know where your application runs and how to improve its execution)
10. AJAX


 That’s why it is essential to knowing basic data structures like 
 Data structures - A data structure is a particular way of organizing and storing data in a computer so that it can be accessed and modified efficiently
 	Primitive types - 
 		Boolean - true or false.
		Char - Character
		Float/Double - Floating-point numbers, limited precision rational number values.
		Int - Including Single precision and Double precision IEEE 754 Floats, among others
		Reference (also called a pointer or handle), a small value referring to another object's address in memory, possibly a much larger one.
		Enumerated type, a small set of uniquely named values.
 	Composite types - 
 		Arrays
 		Strings
 	Abstract types - 
 		Linked Lists
 		Stacks
 		Queues
 		Trees
 		Heap
 		Dictionaries
 		Hash Tables
 		Graphs

 Algorithms - a process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or other problem-solving operations, especially by a computer.
 	Searching
 	Sorting 
 	Hashing
 	Graph algorithms
 	Greedy algorithms
 	Dynamic Programming.
 	
Design Patterns - Design patterns are general reusable solution to a commonly occurring problem within a given context in software design.

Testing and Debugging (T&D) 

How to write a JavaDoc

Create an API
